Tutorial on data transfer - grid storage (#319)
EGI-Federation/documentation: content/en/users/tutorials/filetransfer-gridstorage/_index.md

  Use EGI File Transfer to handle data in grid storage
---

> <!-- Adjust page weight to insert this tutorial in the right place, then remove this -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Overview

> This tutorial describes how to perform a transfer usin FTS transfers services

Reviewer: The name of the EGI Service is EGI Data Transfer, this should be used/replaced/mentioned. (also probably in the directory name like `filetransfer-gridstorage` replaced by `data-transfer-grid-storage`.

Author: I've changed this sentence with:

This tutorial describes the EGI Data Transfer using FTS transfers services and
WebFTS.

Reviewer: Can you also please rename the folder structure as it will be the URL?
`content/en/users/tutorials/filetransfer-gridstorage/_index.md` => `content/en/users/tutorials/data-transfer-grids-torage/_index.md`

and WebFTS.

## Prerequisites

As first step please make sure that you have installed the FTS client as
described in [Data Transfer](../../data-transfer/), and in particular
[Clients](../../data-transfer/clients/) for the command line FTS and to have

> yourcertificates installed in your browser to use WebFTS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
your certificate installed in your browser to use
```

[WebFTS](../../data-transfer/webfts/) browser based client.

To access services and resources in the
[EGI Federated Cloud](../../getting-started), you will need:

> - An EGI ID (account), you can [sign up here](../../check-in/signup)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- An [EGI Check-in](../../check-in) account, you can [sign up here](../../check-in/signup)
```

- Enrollment into a [Virtual Organisation](../../check-in/vos) (VO) that has
  access to the services and resources you need

> ## FTS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Using the FTS client
```

Or another more explicit/relevant title

### Step 1 Configuration check

To verify that everything is configured properly you can check with the
following command pointing to the cerficates directly:

<!-- markdownlint-disable line-length -->

> 

Reviewer: All the line-length exception should not more be needed, it's expected to have been fixed recently via #317.

```shell

> $ fts-rest-whoami --key .globus/userkey.pem --cert .globus/usercert.pem -s https://fts3-public.cern.ch:8446/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ fts-rest-whoami --key ~/.globus/userkey.pem --cert ~/.globus/usercert.pem \
   -s https://fts3-public.cern.ch:8446/
```

> User DN: /DC=org/DC=terena/DC=tcs/C=NL/O=Stichting EGI/CN=Andrea Cristofori ac@egi.eu

Reviewer: Maybe we should try to always use some fake/generic user like a Jane Doe instead of using our real identities.
@enolfc what do you think?

Reviewer 2: I always changed or (cut part of) the resource ids in the example for the docu pages I wrote

VO: AndreaCristoforiac@egi.eu@tcs.terena.org
VO id: XXXXXXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXXXXXXXXXX
Delegation id: XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Base id: XXXXXXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXXXXXXXXXX
```

> 
> <!-- markdownlint-enable line-length -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

In general the commands can be used by specifying the user public and private

> key like shown in the example or by creating a proxy certificate as

Reviewer: Missing end of the sentence.

### Proxy creation

To avoid the need to specify at each command the private and public key if
everything is already configured and working properly it will be enough to

> execute the following coomand:

Reviewer: Not very clear, to be rephrased.

Author: I tried to rephrase it and expand a bit

<!-- markdownlint-disable line-length -->

```shell
$ voms-proxy-init
Your identity: /DC=org/DC=terena/DC=tcs/C=NL/O=Stichting EGI/CN=Andrea Cristofori ac@egi.eu
Creating proxy ........................................... Done

Your proxy is valid until Wed Aug 25 04:18:14 2021
```

> 
> <!-- markdownlint-enable line-length -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> As the output of the command shows a proxy certificate has been generated that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As the output of the command shows, a proxy certificate has been generated that
```

will be valid, by default, for 12 hours. This can be usually increased for
example to 48 hours with the following option:

<!-- markdownlint-disable line-length -->

```shell
$ voms-proxy-init -valid 48:00
Your identity: /DC=org/DC=terena/DC=tcs/C=NL/O=Stichting EGI/CN=Andrea Cristofori ac@egi.eu
Creating proxy ................................... Done

Your proxy is valid until Thu Aug 26 16:23:01 2021
```

<!-- markdownlint-enable line-length -->

To verify the timeleft for the validity of the proxy created use the following
command:

> <!-- markdownlint-disable line-length -->
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```shell
$ voms-proxy-info
subject   : /DC=org/DC=terena/DC=tcs/C=NL/O=Stichting EGI/CN=Andrea Cristofori ac@egi.eu/CN=1451339003
issuer    : /DC=org/DC=terena/DC=tcs/C=NL/O=Stichting EGI/CN=Andrea Cristofori ac@egi.eu
identity  : /DC=org/DC=terena/DC=tcs/C=NL/O=Stichting EGI/CN=Andrea Cristofori ac@egi.eu
type      : RFC compliant proxy
strength  : 1024 bits
path      : /tmp/x509up_u1000
timeleft  : 19:59:57
```

> <!-- markdownlint-enable line-length -->
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

When the timeleft reaches zero if the previous command used to check the

> identity will return the following message:

Reviewer: Not clear, to be rephrased.

> <!-- markdownlint-disable line-length -->
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```shell
$ fts-rest-whoami -s https://fts3-public.cern.ch:8446/
Error: Proxy expired!
```

> 
> <!-- markdownlint-enable line-length -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

The last option that we need to use is specify the VO that we want to use for

> the proxy being created. In the following example the "dteam" VO has been used:

Reviewer: Use `you` as previously done, not `we`.

Reviewer: To be reviewed in the full text.

Author: Changed and changed in the text we with you.

Reviewer: Thanks!

> <!-- markdownlint-disable line-length -->
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```shell

> [ac@localhost ~]$ voms-proxy-init --voms dteam

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ voms-proxy-init --voms dteam
```

Your identity: /DC=org/DC=terena/DC=tcs/C=NL/O=Stichting EGI/CN=Andrea Cristofori ac@egi.eu
Creating temporary proxy ................................................................... Done
Contacting  voms2.hellasgrid.gr:15004 [/C=GR/O=HellasGrid/OU=hellasgrid.gr/CN=voms2.hellasgrid.gr] "dteam" Done
Creating proxy .............................................................................. Done

Your proxy is valid until Wed Sep  8 04:37:07 2021
```

> <!-- markdownlint-enable line-length -->
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### Find the storage

> In general it should be already known the source and destination storage for a
> specific project however to find the available options we can use for a
> transfer, source and destination, we can use the
> [VAPOR service](https://operations-portal.egi.eu/vapor/resources/GL2ResVO).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In general, the source and destination storage for a specific project
should be already known. However, to discover the available source
or destination endpoints to be used for a transfer, you can use the
[VAPOR service](https://operations-portal.egi.eu/vapor/resources/GL2ResVO).
```

![VAPOR main page](VAPOR-home.png)

Once the page is loaded on the left column it is possible to filter by VO or
scroll the list and click the desired VO as show in the following picture:

![VAPOR VO detail](VAPOR-VO_detail.png)

> Once selected we can see all the resources associated with the spcific VO. In
> particular in this case we're interested in the information on the status,
> capacity, type of storage, etc. Following is a screenshot of the visualization
> of the list of storage available to "dteam"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once selected, you can see all the resources associated with the specific VO. In
particular in this case you are interested in the information on the status,
capacity, type of storage, etc. Following is a screenshot of the visualisation
of the list of storage available to "dteam".
```

![VAPOR storage page](VAPOR-storage.png)

> ###Start a transfer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Starting a transfer
```

Once we have identified the surce and destination storage needed for the
transfer we can proceed with the transfer between the two endpoints. To do that
we can use a command of this type:

> <!-- markdownlint-disable line-length -->
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```shell

> $ fts-transfer-submit -s https://fts3-public.cern.ch:8446/ --source https://dc2-grid-64.brunel.ac.uk/dpm/brunel.ac.uk/home/dteam/00 --destination https://golias100.farm.particle.cz/dpm/farm.particle.cz/home/dteam/00

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ fts-transfer-submit -s https://fts3-public.cern.ch:8446/ \
  --source https://dc2-grid-64.brunel.ac.uk/dpm/brunel.ac.uk/home/dteam/00 \
  --destination https://golias100.farm.particle.cz/dpm/farm.particle.cz/home/dteam/00
```

d7920806-10b1-11ec-8218-fa163ecee758
```

> 
> <!-- markdownlint-enable line-length -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Which return the jobid correspondedent to the transfer that we started. To check
the status of the transfer we can use the returned jobid and use the following
command:

> 
> <!-- markdownlint-disable line-length -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```shell
$ fts-transfer-status -s https://fts3-public.cern.ch:8446/ d7920806-10b1-11ec-8218-fa163ecee758
ACTIVE
```

> 
> <!-- markdownlint-enable line-length -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

which specify the server that control the transfer, the source and the transfer
itself.

> ## WebFTS

Reviewer: Please use a more descriptive title

Author: Changed in Using the WebFTS Data Transfer interface

Reviewer: Thanks!

### Access the WebFTS interface

The WebFTS is accessible at this URL, [WebFTS](https://webfts.cern.ch/)
Similarly to what has been done from the command line interface we need to

> provide our private key for delegation of the credential. To do that we use the

Reviewer: Maybe it could be worth to add a warning about the fact that the decrypted private key should be treated carefully.

Author: **Warning**: please be careful and avoid sharing this information with any third party or saving this information in plain text. WebFTS uses the key to acquire a proxy certificate on your behalf as described previously and doesn't store it.

Reviewer: Looks good

Reviewer 2: does not

following command:

> <!-- markdownlint-disable line-length -->
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```shell

> #openssl pkcs12 -in yourCert.p12 -nocerts -nodes | openssl rsa

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ openssl pkcs12 -in yourCert.p12 -nocerts -nodes | openssl rsa
```

Enter Import Password:
writing RSA key
-----BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY-----
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
...
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
-----END RSA PRIVATE KEY-----
```

> <!-- markdownlint-enable line-length -->
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Which extract the private key in RSA format and we paste it in the windows that
opens:

![WebFTS credential delegation](WebFTS-credential_delegation.png)

And select the desired VO. Once the delegation is set it's possible to move to
the following steps.

> ### Submit a transer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Submitting a transfer
```

> The tab <Submit a transfer> is divided in two parts in which is possible to add

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The tab `Submit a transfer` is divided in two parts in which is possible to add
```

two endpoints that can be used both as source or destination. After adding the

> URL for the two endpoint is possible to browse and select the files and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
URL for the two endpoints, it is possible to browse and select the files and
```

> directories to be transferred and in the destination select the destination

Reviewer: ```suggestion
directories to be transferred. In the destination select the destination
```

directory. In the following example the file 1MB has been selected and by simply
clicking the arrow in the middle directing to the right we are instructing the
system to copy the file from the storage and path on the left to the one on the
right:

![WebFTS submit transfer](WebFTS-submit_transfer.png)

On the top of the page is also shown a confirmation that the transfer has been
submitted successfully. This same webpage shows the status of the current

> transfers in the "My jobs" tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
transfers in the `My jobs` tab.
```
